Introduction: 
The climate change issues have been vocal over the last two decades yielding transformation through science and with the integration of machine learning (ML).  The success of this transformation has been made possible through data-driven approaches and methodologies which tackle the complexity and level at which global climate systems able to adapt and provide critical actionable insights for risks and mitigation. 

Unpredictability in weather patterns has increased globally as climate change intensifies. A rise in severe weather events has put many communities' safety in jeopardy.

This process is to identify any significant correlations that exist between the weather conditions at different locations. The approach is to compare data clustered to a predetermined "pleasant weather" standard. This is to reveal weather patterns, parallels, and deviations between locations and also, to provide insights into local weather traits. 

Therefore, machine learning (ML) offers unprecedented opportunities that support climate prediction and mitigation strategies. Despite the opportunities, and challenges that persist, the innovative application of ML represents a significant success in the fight against climate change. This enables a better understanding of the issues, preparation, and policy-making at global scales.

The persistent significance of precipitation and maximum temperature across all analysed weather stations indicates that these factors will be crucial in forecasting and adapting to future climate variability. Given the increasing trend in average temperatures over time with global climate change, it is imperative to prioritise temperature-related indicators such as temp_max and temp_mean in conjunction with precipitation. This will increase the frequency and intensity level, and elevate the maximum and average temperatures as global temperatures rise. The impact of the rise of global temperatures would not only be that of heat waves but also similar meteorological events such as storms, droughts, and changes in precipitation patterns. It is important, therefore, to invest more in climate change tracking tools that can monitor the temperature and precipitation patterns.
